## HOPE: a hybrid deep neural model for out-of-town next POI recommendation
This paper studies next POI recommendation task for **out-of-town** users and proposes a phenomenon named **out-of-town interest drift**, which means that users may have different preferences in different regions. The author argues that it is not sufficient to only model the long-term and short-term preferences of **out-of-town** users because some users may have few or even no out-of-town history check-in records. Therefore the author regards the long-term and short-term preferences of **hometown** users as a supplement.
However, there are still two problems need to be addressed. The first challenge is that **cold-start users** lack history check-in records in both out-of-town and hometown areas. The second is **interest drift** phenomenon. Hence, **region-based** crowd pattern is captured to improve the model.

Specifically, as for **out-of-town** users, the author utilizes those POIs that have been visited in user history check-in records without considering sequentiality to model the **long-term** preference. And a LSTM with **temporal gating** is employed to model **short-term** preference, which takes the temporal interval between two adjacent POIs into account. Finally, an attention-based adaptive fusion method is designed to integrated the **long-term** and **short-term** preference. The same operations are applied for **hometown** users.

The author models the popularity of POI among visitors and visitors' sequential patterns in target region as **long-term** and **short-term** preference, respectively. And an **attention mechanism** is used to combine the long-term preference and short-term preference.

The author uses an attention-based adaptive fusion method to combine a user's **personal preference** and **region-based preference** in the target region. Then a two-layer MLP is employed to predict the probability of each candidate POI in the target region according to the **fusion preference**.
