## A Category-Aware Deep Model for Successive POI Recommendation on Sparse Check-in Data

The paper studies the impact of **POI category** on user preference, which is combined with **geographical influence** to reduce the serach space of candidate POIs. Then these candidate POIs will be ranked to recommend top-N successive POIs that will be visited by users in the next 24 hours.

Specifically, the author design two encoders based on LSTM. The first encoder aims to capture user preference in **POI category**. The **last hidden state** is used with **user embedding** and **category embedding** to calculate score of corresponding category. The **top-K scores** is regarded as **top-K categories**, which are then used to find **corresponding POIs**. The distances between **user current location** and corresponding POIs is further used to filter these POIs to get the **final candidate POI set**. 

The second one is used to extract user preference in **POI**, which considers time influence by dividing user history check-ins into different time windows. A **attention** mechanism is used to combine those time windows to capture user temporal patterns.

Finally, to sort above candidate POI set, the author considers four specific dependencies: user-POI, user-category, POI-time, POI-user current preference. The score corresponds to the sum of **Euclidean distance** of the four dependencies.

Note that there are two training processes. The author first splits dataset into training set, validate set, and test set. The training set and validate set are used to train the first encoder, which is then used to generate the candidate POI set by using test set. The second training process means training the second encoders. The **user current preferences**  are composed of two parts: the **last hidden state** of LSTM and **final window state** that is calculated by attention mechanism. In the training process, the author only takes the dependency between **hidden state** and **POI** into account to compute loss, ignoring the dependency between **final window state** and **POI**.
The dependency between **final window state** and **POI** is used to calculate scores in order to sort those candidate POIs.